# The Disney Story

[Click here to explore the app](https://jenessatan.github.io/disney-story/)

Built using D3.
Data from the [Disney dataset from DataWorld](https://data.world/dot2/disney-character-data-set-project/workspace/project-summary?agentid=kgarrett&datasetid=disney-character-success-00-16) and the [Academy Award dataset from Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/theacademy/academy-awards).

We wanted to do a scrolly-telling version of Disney’s animation studios through the data that they had publicly available.

We started off with an overview of the animation studio as part of the corporate Walt Disney Company. To do this, we showed the contribution of the animation studios to the company revenue over time. We utilized an area chart to show the part-to-whole relationship of the animation studio to the overall company revenue. The revenue is a quantitative value that ranges from USD0-60Billion. We considered using either a clustered bar or stacked bar chart but the years range from 1992 - 2016 (i.e. a period of 24 years) and we felt that there were too many years to opt to use the clustered bar chart. In addition, we felt that area charts were great since it expresses the continuous flow of time so we opted for that rather than the stacked bar chart. The revenue is broken down into 5 categories so we used a categorical color scheme. Our main focus is the animation studio, so we aligned it on the bottom axis so that viewers are still able to easily read the values it contributed on its own using the y-axis.

After showing the financial part of the animation studio, we wanted users to be able to explore the data related to individual movies and the voice actors behind some of the main characters in the movie. We decided to express this through a node-link graph. We shape-coded the nodes where voice actors were represented as stars and the movies used mickey icons. We wanted to use these shapes to bring the Disney theme into our design. Users would be able to explore which movies shared voice actors how many movies a voice actor participated in. Initially, we planned that the default view would show all the movies and voice actor data that we had gathered. However, there were over 700 voice actors for the 80 movies which resulted in a hairball mess in the links. We decided instead to show the data per era beginning with the most recent era. While this makes it difficult to see relationships of voice actors and movies across adjacent eras, we felt it was a good solution that still allowed viewers to discover which movies belonged to which era. Viewers can choose which era they would like to view using navigation buttons at the top of the graph. We will be providing a legend at the bottom but this will be implemented after milestone 2. We will also use color hue to encode the era each disney movie belongs to. This is to be consistent with the dot plot graph below it. We have identified 8 different categorical eras (technically there are 9 from our research but we have no movies for the silent era which dates before 1928 so we have decided to ignore it). We are once again utilizing a categorical color palette. The stroke on the movies and voice actor nodes indicates if it is an Oscar Winner. Hovering over the nodes and links brings up a tooltip that provides more information about the movies and voice actors as well as the relationship between the two. Later, we will be implementing highlighting that changes the luminosity on hover to bring into even more focus the object (node or link) that is currently being viewed.

From going into detail about the movies and their related voice actors, we decide to take a step back and provide another overview of movies. We utilized a dot plot and size-coded the dots to express its gross revenue. As previously mentioned, we use color hue to encode the era each movie belongs to. We decided to use a dot plot because each dot still expresses a single movie and the user will be able to see the number of movies released each year. Typically there’s only about 1-3 movies released per year and our years range from 1928-2016 (approximately 87 years). We chose the dot plot visualization over a bar chart because being able to see the movies individually is important. After the milestone, we want to use the dot-plot graph as an interactive navigation for users to see different movies in the node-link graph by using brush selection. This will remove the limitation of seeing voice actor-movie relationships only for movies within the same era and allow users to explore our dataset better.
